     
    
  

54·

First as to Ζευς, he is represented as majestic, yet passionum
as coming from Egypt attended by nine damsels skilled '
music, having in his retiuue a number of female warriors ο
amazons under the guidance of Minerva ς it is said, moreover,
that he lived with several Greek princesses, and had sons in
the Argonautic expedition, and grandsons at the Trojan war.-¹
Now all this description points to Sesostris, king of Egypt}
who, after subduing a great part of the world, invadetis:
Greece with an army and navy, obtained possession of νει-ΤΞ
rious parts in conjunction with brothers and sons of his, and
was at last driven back into Egypt by the united forces of ·
Greece under Perseus. This interpretation will appear more
evident to those who have read the Prometheus Vinctus,
than it does from the common notions we derive from Homer
and the Latin imitators. There Prometheus, a no less emi-
nent. character than Zeus himself, in all except his sove-
reignty, is banished to mount Caucasus in Colchis, to which
he is chained with an eagle (αετος) to prey upon his liver-
This Prometheus declares in one of his speeches, that he had
assisted Zeus in his encounter with the Titans, generally
called the war of the Giants; but, having conveyed fire from
heaven among mankind, and in other ways displayed a phi-
lanthropic mind, as well as shewed contempt for the sove-
reignty of Zeus, he was punished in the above mentioned
manner. Now the story is, that Prometheus, nephew to Se-
sostris, rallied his forces in his famous attack upon the Pe-
lasgians of Thessaly; that those fierce mountain warriors,
securing themselves in the rising fastnesses of Pelion, Ossa,
and Olympus, terrified the army of Sesostris, by firing the⁴
woods and throwing huge rocks in their way3 that they=
were at length dislodged by fiery bolts (perhaps during az
munder-stormm that after this, Prometheus, whose name«
signifies Prudence or providence, foreseeing the disastrous⁵
consequences, if the people were exasperated by cruelty andt
tyranny, advised pacifio mensures, and ingratiated himselfi

